We welcome you to JW Broadcasting. This month's program is sure to encourage and build you up.
My co-host is Gary Bro. Welcome Gary and please tell us what we can look forward to.
Thank you, Garrett. We have plenty to enjoy in the program ahead.
For example, if you've considered simplifying your life to do more in Jehovah's service,
you may be motivated by the prayerful steps this couple took to simplify their lives.
We'll learn how brothers who live near large seaports witness from ship to ship and how Jehovah has blessed their diligent efforts.
And if you are a loved one deal with a condition that makes it hard to concentrate at meetings, to study or enjoy family worship,
you'll appreciate this young brother who, despite his challenge, has come to love Bible study.
This is the October program of JW Broadcasting.
Traveling through Central Italy, one can see many cities that have been built on the top of mountains rather than in a valley.
In past centuries, this was often for strategic reasons, in case of war. Such cities were easier to defend.
As you travel in the valleys now, you can see these cities from afar.
This reminds us of Jesus' statements at Matthew 5, 14 to 16.
In verse 14, he said,
A city cannot be hid when located on the mountain.
Jesus also said,
You are the light of the world.
People light a lamp and set it not under a basket, but on a lamp stand, and it shines on all those in the house.
Likewise, let your light shine before men.
In ancient Israel, oil lamps illuminated the homes, and an oil lamp was often kept burning throughout the night.
Light is used in the Bible in a figurative way.
Sometimes it is associated with truth.
Some 43 verse 3 says,
Send out your light and your truth.
May these lead me, may they guide me to your holy mountain and to your grand tabernacle.
Similarly, light is associated with God's Word.
Some hundred nineteen verse hundred five says,
Your Word is a lamp to my foot and a light for my path.
Proverbs 6, 23 reads,
For the commandment is a lamp and the law is a light.
Also, progressively righteous conduct is compared to light.
Proverbs 4, 18 says,
But the path of the righteous is like the bright morning light that grows brighter and brighter until full daylight.
Even people are compared to light.
Remember, Jesus said,
You are the light of the world.
So it is we as individuals that become the light of the world by what we do.
This is in harmony with His statement at John 8 verse 12,
I am the light of the world.
How do we let the light shine?
First, many understand that it means preaching the good news.
Well, this is certainly one very important way of letting the light shine.
Certainly, preaching and teaching is a fine work.
To the Romans, Paul wrote in the Romans 15 verse 16,
I am engaging in the holy work of the good news of God.
But preaching is not the only way to let the light shine.
What other ways can we let our light shine?
When Jesus said, let your light shine,
He was not specifically referring to preaching,
but to doing good to others by neighborly love.
He said in verse 16 of Matthew chapter 5,
So that the people may see you find works
and give glory to your Father who is in the heavens.
Jesus said that it is by fine works that will let our light shine.
This is in line with Isaiah 58 verses 7 and 8,
where it says,
it is to share your bread with the hungry,
to bring the poor and homeless into your house,
to close someone naked when you see him,
and not to turn you back on your own flesh.
Then your light will shine through like the dawn.
Jesus, as the light of the world, did both.
He let his light shine by means of preaching,
but he also did so by means of doing fine works,
doing good to others.
Like Jesus, we let the light shine also by our Christian conduct.
Jesus kept perfect balance.
We too need to balance our preaching
with doing good to others and displaying Christian conduct.
Jehovah's Witnesses everywhere are known for their honesty.
They imitate the Apostle Paul who said at Hebrews 13, 18,
we trust we have an honest conscience
as we wish to conduct ourselves honestly in all things.
They appreciate that such conduct gives glory to Jehovah God,
as Jesus said.
Jehovah is the best example.
In Eden, he proclaimed the good news that Satan would be crushed,
resulting in paradise restored to earth.
He proclaimed the good news to Abraham,
that through Abraham all the nations will be blessed.
But besides declaring the good news,
he also constantly does good to mankind.
At Acts chapter 14 verse 16 and 17,
to people in Listera, Asian Minor,
Paul and Barnabas said,
In past generations, he permitted all the nations to go on in their ways,
although he did not leave himself without witness,
and that he did good,
giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons,
satisfying you with food and filling your hearts with gladness.
Jesus is a perfect example as well.
Jesus not only preached and taught,
but he also did good to others.
He healed the lame, the blind, and the demon possessed.
Acts 10.38 says,
He went through the land doing good,
and healing all those oppressed by the devil,
because God was with him.
On one occasion, after preaching to a crowd,
Jesus twice performed the miracle of feeding thousands
with some fish and a few loaves of bread.
He did not stop at preaching to the crowds.
He did good to them by giving them food.
We can also imitate him by giving food to those who are hungry.
Can you children also do good to other children,
besides preaching to them?
Yes, perhaps you can share some snacks with others
that might not have brought any to school,
or whose parents are too poor to provide them with such.
Or perhaps you have a nice piece of clothing
that has become too small for you to wear.
Perhaps you can give it as a gift to someone in your class
or school that might have a need for it.
Let's go back to letting our light shine by showing neighborly love.
Let's first consider good works in the congregation.
Many brothers let their light shine today
when the visit sick brothers and sisters
encourage the depressed and support the week.
In Hebrews 1350, the Apostle Paul compares our public declaration
of Jehovah's name to a sacrifice.
He says, through him, let us always offer to God
a sacrifice of praise, that is, the fruit of lips
that make public declaration to his name.
That includes preaching.
However, in the very next verse, verse 16,
he speaks of something else as also being a sacrifice,
besides preaching.
He says, called,
do not forget the doing of good
and to share what you have in a material way with others.
For God is well pleased with such sacrifices.
Tabitha, also called Dorcas,
is mentioned in the Bible in a positive way,
not necessarily for her zeal for preaching,
but for making garments for others, acts of neighborly love.
Acts 936 says,
she abounded in good deeds and gifts of mercy
that she was making.
She shared material things with others.
Also today, many abound in good deeds,
other than preaching,
we want to commend them all for letting their light shine.
1 Timothy 5.9 and 10 speaks of widows,
having a reputation for fine works.
If she practiced hospitality,
if she assisted the afflicted,
she devoted herself to every good work.
There is not just one type of good work,
not just preaching.
We have many widows and other sisters
that have the reputation for fine works of different sorts.
We want to commend them all.
We can also show neighborly love to those in need
in times of disaster.
Again, the field ministry is not the only ministry for Christians.
There is also relief ministry.
Assisting others materially is a fine work and ministry.
When Christians in Judea became impoverished,
relief campaigns were organized.
Of the Macedonian Christians in the first century,
it is said in 2 Corinthians 8.4,
they on their own initiative kept earnestly begging us
for the privilege of kindly giving
to have a share in the relief ministry.
Greek Diaconia for the Holy Ones.
Just as preaching glorifies Jehovah,
Paul goes on to say that this relief ministry glorifies God.
2 Corinthians 9.13 says,
To the proof that this relief ministry gives,
they glorify God.
As we approach the great tribulation,
we do well to practice sharing things with others,
as this may help them to survive the great tribulation.
Another area of neighborly love is participation
in the construction of kingdom halls, assembly halls,
remote translation offices, and branch offices.
The construction of these is a holy ministry or sacred service.
One pioneer said,
I have now been a regular pioneer for more than 20 years.
I've kept myself busy in many avenues of the ministry,
serving where the need is greater,
helping with kingdom hall construction,
and assisting with disaster relief work.
Just as preaching is holy service,
so is participation in construction of kingdom halls.
The organized to do Jehovah's will book says,
quote,
the construction of kingdom halls and assembly halls
is a form of sacred service.
And then it asks,
are you in a position to assist in this aspect of sacred service?
Serving in battle homes is also an avenue of the ministry.
Therefore, if one's share in preaching and teaching
is somewhat limited because of serving full time
in other avenues of holy service or ministry,
one does not have to have a bad conscience.
Through these other forms of the ministry,
one is letting his light shine.
We can also let our light shine by displaying neighborly love
toward non-witnesses.
In Jesus' illustration of the merciful Samaritan,
he was emphatic that even though one is living at a distance
or is not a relative or an associate,
the real neighbor is the one who will exercise the love
and kindness to another that the Scriptures commend.
Jesus taught others not only to preach,
but also to do good to them in a practical way,
motivated by love and compassion,
in that famous parable of the neighborly Samaritan,
the Samaritan took care of a Jew that was robbed and injured.
He treated his wounds, he took him to an inn
and paid for his care for a couple of days.
This parable touches many so that they think
that this event actually happened.
It did not.
It was a parable, but a very effective one.
A man quoted the Scripture to Jesus
that one should love Jehovah with his whole heart,
but also one's neighbor.
The man then asked Jesus,
who is my neighbor?
Greek, please see on.
Jesus ended the parable by saying,
go and do the same yourself.
We also want to do good to neighbors in need,
whether they have a false religion or no religion.
We want to be as compassionate as the merciful Samaritan
in the parable, do we not?
Neighborly love was illustrated in the case of an elderly man
who wrote to a local paper about Mr. and Mrs. Nice Guy.
He explained that his neighbors had been kind to him
when his wife was dying.
Since she passed away, they have been super, he wrote.
And then they have adopted me,
doing all kinds of chores and helping
to solve the problems of a 74-year-old retiree.
What makes all this even more unusual is that they are black.
I'm white.
They are Jehovah's Witnesses.
I'm a drop-out Catholic.
When a hurricane hit an island years ago,
a lady who had her house cleaned by a witness team said,
you have been coming to my door for a long time.
And I thought of you as good neighbors.
But this expression of neighborly love shows me
what your organization is about.
When a hurricane hit the southern United States,
a big tree fell on the rooftop of an elderly lady's home.
She called the company to find out how much they would charge
for taking the tree off and cutting it up.
She was told $1,000.
She did not have that money available.
Later, brothers from another state came with their chainsaws
to help our brothers living on the same street.
They also took down the tree from the elderly lady's house for free.
A newspaper then wrote,
many don't like Jehovah's Witnesses
when they go from house to house with the Bible.
But when they go from house to house with the chainsaw,
they do like it.
Returning from a trip, a brother and his family
in a Latin country were a few months away from home
when they saw a terrible automobile bill accident on the highway.
They stopped to offer assistance.
One of the drivers involved, a doctor,
asked them to take his pregnant wife and two small daughters
to the nearest hospital for treatment,
since police wanted to question him.
The brother did so,
and then the brother returned to the scene
of the accident to see what further aid he could render.
He told the doctor that he did not need to worry
about his wife and children,
for he would take care of them.
With grateful tears in his eyes,
he then turned his valuables over to the brother for safekeeping.
The brother and his family took the man's family home
with them and cared for them for several days.
The doctor promised to study the Bible in his hometown,
and he said that if his wife gave birth to a son,
he would be named after the brother.
Two years later, the brother visited the family.
They were studying the Bible,
and their little boy was named after the brother.
Loving one's neighbor is most important
because it is listed as the second greatest
commitment in the Bible after loving Jehovah.
When we do good to others,
the motive for doing so should not be just to have a better chance
to preach to them thereafter.
It should come naturally to Christians to do good to others.
We want to do good,
whether we can preach to them thereafter or not.
We want to imitate our loving Heavenly Father
in doing the right and the loving thing.
How about this one?
Showing neighborly love to opposers.
Suppose you have an opposing neighbor.
As you are driving down the road,
you see that his car broke down,
and there he is at the roadside.
What are you going to do?
Pass by, pretending not to have seen him,
or will you help if you can,
as suggested by the principle
in the parable of the merciful Samaritan?
This is in line with Jesus' statement in Luke 633-35.
And if you do good to those doing good to you,
of what credit is this to you,
even the sinners do the same.
Then he said,
continue to love your enemies and to do good.
Even our enemies are our neighbors.
We may not love them in the sense of being found of them in Greek filia,
but in the sense of principled love in Greek agapi.
Even if we have to suffer or are being persecuted,
we continue to show neighborly love.
First Peter 4, 19 states.
So then let those who are suffering in harmony with the will of God
keep on entrusting themselves to a faithful Creator
while they are doing good.
Jehovah also does good, not only to His servants,
but to good ones and bad ones,
giving them good things through nature.
In review, how do we let our light shine?
What fine works are we to produce?
How can we show neighborly love?
We do it by preaching, by doing good to our brothers in the congregation,
by supporting relief campaigns,
by doing good to non-witnesses, including opposers.
We render sacred service also by supporting theocratic construction projects,
and by serving at Bethel or caring for assembly halls.
All this is included in letting our light shine.
In the case of electrical light, there could be blackouts
when everything comes to a halt or standstill.
In our case, there will never be a figurative blackout because,
a second Thessalonians 3.13 says,
we will not give up in doing what is good.
Our good works cannot be overlooked,
just like a city on the mountain cannot be overlooked.
They will not be overlooked because we will continue to let our light shine
by multiple fine works, including preaching.
Our light conquers the darkness of this world that is referred to in Isaiah 60 verse 2,
and our good works glorify Jehovah.
Our team looked for examples of those doing the fine works we just reviewed.
They met an elder in Texas who led his light shine by showing
loving concern for brothers and sisters who are ill.
As David Slackman visits fellow witnesses in the hospital,
notice what he considers to be the special blessings of his work.
My name is David Slackman.
I serve as the Chairman of the Hospital of the Aeson Committee in a Houston area.
And the thing I like about the Hospital of the Aeson Committee
is that I'm not there for any personal glory,
but rather I'm serving from the standpoint of helping the friends.
I get a lot of phone calls,
and sometimes the phone calls may come in the middle of the night.
Sometimes the phone call may come during dinner time,
but I'm serving Jehovah, I'm serving the friends.
I don't care when it comes, I just want to help them.
So when the call comes, the emergency is there.
I have this peripheral attitude that I have Jehovah's spirit to assure them
that Jehovah cares for them.
When we're visiting with the patient,
the patient is very glad to see us.
And that immediately translates from their viewpoint that Jehovah is with them.
When we leave the hospital,
and we know that the sisters have been comforted by our call,
it calls to mind what the Prophet said in Isaiah 40 in verse 11.
It says, like a shepherd,
he will care for his flock.
Jehovah does care.
And when we see that's what Jehovah does for the individual sheep,
and I'm able to try to imitate that,
and also at the same time comfort the brother or sister,
that's what gives me the greatest joy.
Brother Slackman has been serving on the hospital A's on committee for 22 years.
Recall that he said his joy comes from imitating Jehovah's love for his sheep.
You and I can feel that same joy and satisfaction anytime we help a brother or sister in need.
We also feel a sense of satisfaction when we put in the extra effort it takes to bring the good news
to someone with unique circumstances.
Merchant sailors, for example,
spend months at sea away from their families.
They're rarely at home and we call.
So in busy harbours around the world,
witnesses invited to this special work
are going aboard ships with the Kingdom message.
Hardware is a 24-7 economy,
so you never know exactly when a sheep arrives.
You have to be flexible in your schedule.
Just everything you can to meet the people there on board,
especially when it is a return visit.
You try to do everything you can to meet that person again.
We check one website where all the ships are depicted on a map.
We check if some of them are return visits.
What nationalities are on board?
Once on the ship we go to the mess room
and then it's a little bit like a metropolitan witnessing.
And we play some magazines over there.
We put a tablet over there with the website.
In the 80s, we used a little card behind our bicycles
to bring all the 80 languages of literature to the seaships.
Sometimes we would come home tired at 10.30, maybe 11.
And then there was a message on the answering machine of a sailor
saying, please Mr. Tydemann, come to our ship
we're leaving in two or three hours
and we desperately need spiritual food.
And we would go right back on our bikes with literature.
But in the winter time it was very hard
because it was raining, it was very cold.
And we had to bike for one hour.
But then we came on the ship
and then people were so nice and you were inside
and then we could forget it.
The JW Language app also proves very valuable in our ministry.
When we have to wait for example in the restroom for the crew to arrive
we use it to practice certain greetings
or expressions in their mother tongue.
The biggest challenge for us in the harbour field
is a little bit like what I call the five minutes rule.
What will you say if you meet a person once in your life
and you only have five minutes?
So what we have to do then is read a scripture,
inform him about God's name,
give him a beautiful tract, show him a video,
all focus on the first five minutes in a meter person.
And if we see how they react to Jehovah's purpose
to make this earth a paradise again
and that they would be able to be with their families,
that that is Jehovah's intention from the start.
That's very nice to see how they are comforted by the good news.
I have seen so many times how Jehovah cares for the sailors,
how he helps them, how he listens to their prayers.
Sometimes when I was coming from the ship,
I couldn't sleep from all the excitement on the ship.
These are really the most beautiful years of my life.
I first got in touch with the trophy 1997
at Antwerp Harbour in Belgium.
When Brother Tenney and Sister Nancy Skiri visited me.
One of the topics that touched his heart
was the good news of the kingdom.
And I remember once he told us that his personal name,
Tal-Alele means good news.
He applied promptly with the alert in his person life
and shortly thereafter he became an end-to-death publisher.
And after some time he preached with us together on the ships.
My love for the truth and the brotherhood got stronger.
I was baptized in 2000.
I now saving as a special pioneer on the island of Savai in Samoa.
I am grateful that the brothers who visited us at the talk
carried out Jehovah's Witnesses with zealously and faithfully.
These brothers learn that harbour witnessing takes good planning
and an adaptable spirit.
If there is a seaport in your area that could benefit
from this form of ministry, ask your congregation service committee
what arrangement exists or could be set up by your branch.
When we simplify our life, we're able to give more time
to the fine works that Brother Loach discussed
and that we've seen thus far.
But seeing the need to simplify and then following through
can be overwhelming.
Many though have succeeded.
And it's likely you know some in your area
who were able to simplify with Jehovah's help.
See how this couple recognizes the opportunity?
Prayerfully makes the need of changes
and is richly rewarded.
Encouragement.
It comes in many forms
and it can affect our lives in ways we never imagined.
The couple being interviewed were truly happy.
They were enjoying so many blessings in Jehovah's service.
Their secret?
They simplified their life.
After that assembly, we really thought about how we could do more
to serve Jehovah.
Working to maintain a pattern of life is exhausting.
Even our vacations were tiring.
We were both working to maintain our lifestyle.
But our lifestyle was controlling us.
We were spending money without even a thought.
It seemed we were never satisfied with what we had.
In one of Jesus' illustrations,
a rich man built bigger storehouses
so he could store all his things.
But then God said to the rich man,
unreasonable one,
this night they are demanding your life from you.
Who then is to have the things you stored up?
His things could not save his life.
We reflected on Ecclesiastes 2.22, which reads,
what does a man really gain from all his hard work
and ambition that drives him to work hard under the sun?
We meditated on what matters most.
And we were determined to simplify our life.
We had stored up many things.
And it wasn't easy letting go.
But the more we let go,
the more we felt free.
We analyzed our expenses,
and we made adjustments.
We prayed to Jehovah before making any decisions.
With time and effort,
we came to have more joy and freedoms
we didn't think possible.
Simplifying your life can take time,
and it is not easy.
But the reward Jehovah gives can far outweigh any sacrifice we make.
With nothing to hold us back,
we were now in a position to accept any assignment Jehovah gave us.
Now we could share our joy with others.
We are truly happy.
Our secret?
We live a simple life.
Did you notice the many things they simplified
to reach their goal to serve what the need is great?
They found real joy in putting their trust in God.
If you're considering ways to simplify your life
to serve God more fully,
take it to Jehovah in prayer
and look for His guidance.
For some, living a life dedicated to God
meant giving up something they loved to do,
but that demanded their full attention.
We met a brother in South Africa
who had to decide what would be his life's devotion.
What factors led him to make the better choice?
My love soccer very much.
It was one thing that gave me pleasure.
Growing up in Newcastle,
in the township of Osisway,
was quite a nice experience.
As kids, young boys, playing soccer in the streets,
bare feet,
using breaks as goal posts
and playing right up until after sunset.
Even at school, playing at lunch breaks,
playing soccer was like culture for us.
I couldn't see anything else better than soccer.
I ended up representing the province
and then played for the youth national teams,
representing the country
and then got chosen to play professional soccer
with one of the local clubs.
Then eventually, I went overseas
to play in different tournaments in countries like Belgium,
Netherlands, France and Germany.
I'd find it that time enjoyed it, you know,
because it's something that you grow up hoping to achieve.
And when it does happen, it makes you happy
and proud of yourself.
And of course, your families, proud,
your community,
everyone who worked hard in getting you there.
While I was on holiday from soccer,
I went over to visit my brother
who was studying the Bible with the witnesses,
asked him about it.
He explained to me, basically, preached to me.
And he took me to my first meeting.
I was amazed to see so much emphasis
in the Bible and looking at young kids,
knowing how to look up the scriptures.
I didn't know the Bible,
although I had been going to church all my life
and seeing the love with the Kingdom Hall there,
just made me realize that there was something in this.
And I had to look closely to see what it was.
Deep personal study, Bible reading,
and meditation helped me realize that,
hey, Jehovah requires that I put him first
and then professional soccer requires the same thing.
Full dedication right now.
I must say, deciding to quit professional soccer
and serve Jehovah more fully
was not an easy decision,
because I knew what it would involve.
Disappointing my whole family, relatives, friends,
my whole community, the whole country,
people who were very close to me, who really loved me.
With professional sport of soccer,
any career in this world,
there are no guarantees, you know?
And with Jehovah, everything is guaranteed,
as long as we put him first.
And I realized that I had to make a decision
to quit professional soccer
and put Jehovah to the test
and taste and see that he is good.
And of course, coming to Bethel
was a special privilege,
because here, you give Jehovah
everything you have every day.
And that's why I met my wife.
Thanks to coming to full-time service,
meeting someone who is very supportive to me,
who loves Jehovah primarily,
who loves me,
and having a teammate like that is so wonderful blessing.
Working in the sign language field,
is a special blessing also.
Here, you're teaching deaf people the truth.
It's a quiet world for them
and here they see you as a hearing person
and they can see you've worked hard to learn the language
and you introduce them to Jehovah
in a special way.
You see them growing in the truth,
being deaf,
understanding that Jehovah understands sign language,
understands their language.
You see them growing in appreciation,
even in accepting that they're deaf,
not because of Jehovah.
And they understand why they're deaf
and they come to understand why others have disabilities,
and to see them being happy in their lives for a change,
thanks to their truth.
I'm grateful that I chose to play for Jehovah's team
because in the world,
the very same people that you play with
in the same team, your teammates,
you're competing all the time,
you're always competing to be chosen,
you're fighting for positions,
and you come this side in the organization.
Being with fellow brothers and sisters,
we don't compete for Jehovah's approval.
Jehovah appreciates each and every one of us.
Success in this world can look like security,
but brother and zizi realize only Jehovah
can secure our everlasting future.
Instead of accepting a high-paying contract
and professional soccer,
he took the path that enabled him
to let his light shine in the ministry
and for 10 years in Bethel service.
We go now from the South Africa branch
to the Indonesia branch
where we met with long-time missionary Reiner Tashman.
He shares some of Indonesia's spiritual history
and takes us to a recent event
that strengthened the faith of all who attended.
People often ask me,
what is Indonesia like?
Well, Indonesia is 250 million people.
Diverse religions.
Traditional villages.
Huge modern cities.
But when I first came to Indonesia,
life was quite different.
I arrived here as a missionary in 1968.
And after spending about a year in the field,
I was assigned to do traveling work.
I traveled all over the country.
I had some real adventures.
Later, I was called into the branch office.
In 1976, though,
the Churches of Christenham succeeded
in having our preaching work banned.
We moved the branch office to a secret location.
We had many confidential files
and I copied them on a tiny piece of paper
and stored them in little match boxes.
We kept on preaching, of course,
and held our meetings.
We even held our assemblies.
And finally, in 2001,
the ban was lifted.
For me, in Indonesia has been a preacher's paradise.
People are friendly.
It is easy to place literature.
You can even start plenty of Bible studies.
But recently, we had another thrilling spiritual development.
For years, our branch office was hidden away.
But it is not hidden anymore.
Our new branch office occupies a floor
in one of the most modern buildings in Jakarta.
In February 2015,
brothers and sisters from all over the world gathered in Jakarta
to attend the dedication of the new branch facilities.
Most of us hadn't seen each other for years.
Hundreds of brothers and nearby locations
followed the program by a video link.
Anthony Morris, from the governing body,
delivered the dedication talk.
I'm going to ask you this question.
And then you just give a bold yes if you agree.
All joining and dedicating this branch facility
to the worship of Jehovah God
are Grand King in the service of the Messianic King Jesus Christ.
Say yes.
The following day, thousands of brothers and sisters gathered
at a special assembly in Jakarta.
30 other locations around Indonesia were tied in via video link.
We've never had a convention like it.
Indonesia is opening up,
and the kingdom work is really moving ahead.
And for that, I truly thank Jehovah.
How thrilling it must have been for our brothers and Indonesia
to go from preaching under a ban
to now having their work organized openly
from a beautiful new branch office.
Special programs like a branch dedication
are historic events and unforgettable experiences.
While not all of us can attend every special meeting,
more and more of these programs are shared with us
on JW Broadcasting.
In March of this year,
our brothers and sisters in Brazil were thrilled
when 1,130,826 of them gathered to receive
a precious gift from Jehovah.
In Brazil, with the governing body support,
planning began in 2007 to produce a revised version
of the New World Translation in Brazilian Portuguese.
Using the English source text and many reference works,
the Portuguese translation team refined the text.
After seven years of intense and thorough work,
the new Bible was composed and finally ready for printing.
The United States and Japan branches printed almost
1.3 million Bibles and shipped them to Brazil.
Once they arrived at the branch,
it took about three months to forward them
to the more than 11,000 congregations around Brazil,
involving a lot of careful planning and organization.
Each box was labeled with specific instructions
that they should not be opened in advance.
The first boxes were sent to the furthest regions
so that every congregation would have them on hand
for a special meeting arranged for March 22nd, 2015.
Finally, that special day arrived.
Preparations were made so that all the congregations in Brazil
would be connected.
More than 740,000 attended the event at a live broadcast meeting
and many others would watch later on during the day.
In some kingdoms, there were up to three sessions.
The audience enjoyed upbuilding talks and interviews with brothers
that saw the first New World Translation release in 1967.
There was great anticipation in the air.
Brothers Plain was present for the special meeting
and what a joy it was to discover that the Bible had been revised
and was now available in Brazilian Portuguese.
Everyone present received their own personal copy of the New Revised Bible.
While the Bible was being distributed,
those in attendance heard a chorus sing the new songs in Portuguese.
This new Bible will help me to get to know Jehovah
and it will be even better for the use in the field ministry.
Our brothers and sisters present were so grateful for what they saw
and heard at this unforgettable meeting.
The illustrations here at the back are very interesting
because it's much easier to understand.
How wonderful to know that at the end of that special day
with Jehovah's help around 1.1 million Bibles had been distributed.
Few things compared to receiving the New World Translation in your own language.
As Jehovah's people, we love studying from a clear and accurate translation
since the Bible is God's way of communicating with us today.
What though if someone suffers from a condition that makes it difficult
to focus on Bible truth at meetings, family worship,
our personal study?
In some cases, we patiently wait for Jehovah's cure in the new system.
But for others, like 10-year-old Jaden Schreiber,
adjustments are possible that can help them to benefit from Bible study.
When I wake up to a ministry day, I enjoy waking up to that day.
Because I look forward to it, I have fun doing the ministry with the friends.
I love showing the Caleb videos to the little kids at the door.
But it hasn't always been so easy.
I have autism.
Loud noises were really, really hard for me,
like when the audience laughed or clapped.
Or even crowds, like a lot of people,
you just can't be around them.
Because you just feel like this is too much.
Family worship was difficult when I was eight or nine.
And I just didn't really want to do it.
It was getting all my nerves.
It was just not really easy.
Some days it felt impossible to go to school.
There was a day when I went outside
and I just like, I cannot go back in there.
One time, a kid came out of nowhere and just pushed me over.
It made me feel physical pain and emotional pain.
When other kids were playing without me,
it just made me feel a little upset that they're leaving me out.
It just made me feel a bit lonely.
At first, my parents did not know how to communicate with me.
I had mental and social challenges.
The brothers and sisters could not understand what I was doing.
My parents found out I had autism.
Then as the years passed,
it got easier and easier for them to communicate with me.
The friends in the congregation have helped me by doing whatever they need to do
to help me stay on the road to life.
Some of the ways that my parents have helped me to learn about Jehovah
are household activities.
Like making food, going out in nature and failing worship.
My parents took a new route by situating spiritual things all day long
instead of one thing once or twice a week.
And now, family worship cannot be better.
Relationship with Jehovah has helped me overcome challenges.
He is also a better friend to me than ever before.
By family worship, Bible reading, personal Bible reading,
and I do like the whiteboard animations.
Beating a bully without using your fist,
it's helped me to show how to deal with it.
Actually, right then, I was starting to experience some bad things going on my school
and when they started doing those whiteboard animations, it pretty much saved me.
We just love him so much.
He's just been such a bright spot.
He loves giving pictures to people.
They're a little piece of him.
Whether it's a picture of a really cool car or whatever he's drawn.
He's handing you a piece of himself.
Well, I can remember when I was his age.
I would never be up in front of that many people.
Jaden has dealt with that fear and he seems very comfortable with it now.
He's not afraid to speak in front of the congregation.
And the congregation is very supportive.
I feel like I've been an important part of the congregation by publishing.
When I took a personal interest of those I meet in the ministry,
I started getting return visits and I started showing videos.
In fact, we are studying the good news from God Roaster.
Really, anytime Jaden answers, the congregation really pays attention.
He speaks from his heart when he answers.
And the brothers and sisters really appreciate that.
It was really fun to take a trip to New York.
Bethel was very fun.
I got to meet some of the brothers and sisters.
I also felt like it was part of something.
When I was at Bethel, they helped me make a box.
I don't know where that box went,
but I knew I was helping somebody to come into the truth
and become closer to Jehovah.
We've really seen how Jehovah has greatly blessed Jaden
because he has his own ministry.
He's able to practice his social skills,
both at the door and with the brothers and sisters that are out in service.
And we really feel that Jehovah has created the perfect environment
for Jaden to thrive spiritually.
I can't believe that this is actually happening.
That I'm actually born into Jehovah's organization.
Thank you, Jehovah.
Jaden has a form of autism spectrum disorder
that still allows him to participate in spiritual activity.
The loving help he receives from his family and congregation
are a beautiful part of their fine works.
It's our prayer that the variety of spiritual food now available
will help others with challenging conditions to benefit from God's Word.
Such variety includes our music videos.
This month's video comes to us from our brothers in Peru.
Missionaries first arrived there in 1946.
And since then, the preaching work in Peru has grown dramatically.
Still, there is a need for more workers in that harvest.
In the music video, finding treasures,
our brothers and sisters are using personal study to grow spiritually
and set goals in their ministry.
And my study,
there are treasures that I find I'm searching, digging deeper.
When I take a little time to see,
it helps me understand just what the Bible means.
Imagination and meditation
these are the things that help me see inside
to help me do a person.
A person I should be.
I can call more faithful, some more knowing example.
Gives me insight to God's feelings and his thought.
Sometimes my mind and makes me realize
how I can be more bizarre.
Imagination.
These are the things that help us do.
As Proverbs chapter 2 tells us,
we search for the knowledge of God as if we were searching for hidden treasures.
And there were excellent examples of that in our music video.
Yes, there were.
Personal study and family worship not only help us reach our spiritual goals,
but as we saw, they give us what we need to make good decisions
when faced with difficulties or temptations.
And Bible study unveils the many ways we can let our light shine.
Our program concludes this month with greetings from New Zealand.
The Fenton Park congregation is located along beautiful Lake Rotorua.
Visitors come from around the world to see native Mari villages
and geothermal hot springs like the Pohutu geyser.
The 90 publishers in Fenton Park use their public witnessing cards
in the local market every Saturday,
taking the opportunity to witness to neighbors and the many tourists that pass by.
The 10 regular pioneers are often joined by upwards of 40 auxiliary pioneers
during special campaigns.
The congregation includes brothers from India, Russia and Scotland
as well as European New Zealanders and native Mari.
They enjoy each other's hospitality,
getting together regularly for cookouts,
their critic songs and Mari cultural music.
Our love and greetings go to them and to all of you who are watching this program.
From Brooklyn, New York, this is JW Broadcasting.